All right guys so now we're going to take a look at media queries with the grid.
So let's create a file called 0 6 underscore grid underscore media queries dot each team Al
and put our style tags so I'm going to create the the the markup first.
So we're gonna have a container of grid and then let's do an item and an H three inside here or just
say heading and then a paragraph with the text we'll just do last 15.
And then I'm going to copy this down.
I want four of them so going to do three more.
All right.
And we'll go ahead and save this and open it with live server.
OK.
So let's start off with adding a grid.
So we'll take the parent element and we'll set it to display grid and let's say grid dash template columns
and we're going to do a repeat say repeat for auto.
OK.
So that's going to set them to basically a four column grid.
And we'll do a grid gap one room.
All right.
Now the way that that this is naturally is it's just going it's it's four columns no matter what.
Okay no matter how small.
And what I would like to do is have it so that when we get to a certain point like maybe tablet size
768 or so we change it to two columns and then when we get to Mobile it's stacked meaning that it's
just one column.
So this is pretty easy to do we can just add in media query
so let's say we want this to be four Max with 768 pixels.
We need that and then we're going to simply take our grid element and we're going to say we want grid
actual just copy this here and let's say for Max with
768 we want to.
So we'll say repeat to auto now.
Once they hit 768 you can see that it goes to two.
All right.
And then we'll just add another one so I'll copy this and we'll say at 500.
So basically smartphones.
I simply want one FDR actually noting and do instead of auto I'm just gonna do one FDR like that.
So we get the same result on big screens and then basically tablet size and then we get to smartphone
size stacks.
So it's as easy as that to use media queries with the grid.
Now we also have grid template areas which we went over in the last video so I want to show you what
we would do in that case.
So I'm actually going to open up the file from the last video and just add to that.
So let's go ahead and open this with live server.
So right now even if we go down you know to mobile size that doesn't look very good.
So all we would have to do is add a media query so we'll say at media and I'm just going to do.
Let's see let's see what this looks like it like 768.
So it's OK that that's fine for like a tablet size.
But for smartphones we want to change it.
So let's do a max width of let's say five hundred pixels.
And what we would do is just change up the grid template areas so we'll take this and if we want to
stack everything we can simply have one column.
So we'll do header content which I forgot to put the D.
Select the selector which is going to be our container of grid or is it.
Wait no it's contain or sorry.
So container and then I'm going to piece that in and we'll say header.
So I only want one.
We want these to be stack so header content and then we'll add in here side bar we'll do box 1 box 2
box 3 and footer.
OK.
So it's only one column.
And again this is this is visually representative of what we actually want to display in our browser
so let's save.
And now everything is nicely stacked.
OK.
So when it hits 500 pixels everything stacks nicely.
So pretty easy if we're going to be getting more into this in our project which we're going to get into
in the next section.